Please download the PDF attached to this lecture.
I recommend you purchase a cheap domain name for the purposes of completing this course, you are free
to use any domain name registrar, but I don't recommend you use the domain registrars DNS servers,
rather use the free DNS service offered by CloudFlare.
The speed, security and propagation time cannot be matched by any domain name registrar.
I recommend you sign up for a free CloudFlare account and then follow the easy steps to start using
cloud flea's name servers.
The process involves simply changing the name servers at your domain registrar.
The proxy status must be set to DNS only.
CloudFlare needs to be configured correctly to take advantage of the performance and security benefits
that the proxy status offers that we will look at later in the course to change the proxy status from
proxy to DNS only select, edit and simply click on the icon to change to DNS only.
And both my records have been changed from proxy to DNS only.
This course was not designed to be completed on your PC or Mac using one of the many available virtual
machines.
Oracle's virtual box is one example.
The aim of this course is to instruct you on how to set up a secured and hardened hosting environment
and then host multiple WordPress sites on a commercially purchased VPN or a dedicated server.
This course is not a lab experiment with no real world application.
I want you to be able to look at the server logs.
I want you to see how malicious users and bots scan your server are they probe for vulnerabilities.
You need to be able to see the result of your hardening in your server logs.
None of this can be done in a virtual machine.
The only advantage of a VMS is the cost.
It's free, although hosting a site locally using a VM is free, it's rather pointless for the reasons
I've just mentioned.
I think it's rather obvious hosting a WordPress site is going to cost you money every month.
You need to pay a Web host for the server rental in the section web hosts.
I've given you a coupon code for vulture.
Create a vulture account.
Using that code, vulture will give you 100 dollars credit.
That means you will have a free server for 30 days.
The 30 day period is more than enough time for you to complete the course two or three times.
You are free to use any Web host of your choosing, but I recommend you sign up and use Vulture for
the purposes of this course.
I say this because some hosts customize the server distribution installed on their servers.
And what happens is you run into issues that are a consequence of that customization by you using the
same hosting environment as I am using issues that are host related.
I removed this makes troubleshooting so much easier.
There are a few reasons why Vulture is my recommended Web host.
Vulture is stable and reliable.
The pricing is excellent.
Its quick and easy to create a new server.
You have a choice of locations around the globe.
Excellent support in the event of you experiencing issues.
One of the most important factors is that the server distribution that vulture offers is very close
to the official distribution.
Attached to this lecture is a PDF that contains a vulture link that will give you 100 dollars free credit
from Vulture.
That translates into 30 days free VPs hosting.
I must point out that this offer is subject to change.
So please check the vulture website for any terms and conditions related to this offer.
The minimum service specifications that I recommend for a development server are as follows, a single
CPU core, one gig of RAM solid state drive and a multi gigabit per second network connection for a
production server.
I recommend a dual core CPU two to four gigs of RAM, a solid state drive, as well as a multi gigabit
per second network connection.
I cannot emphasize the importance of having enough RAM a mostly static or informational type WordPress
site can get by with two gigs of RAM but are highly dynamic.
WordPress site definitely needs more RAM.
Don't go for the cheapest deal when selecting your production server.
Hosting an e-commerce site on a free or low memory server is going to end up being an exercise in patience.
Be prepared for hours of frustration while you troubleshoot.
Why is my server giving so many issues?
No amount of caching and optimization can replace physical hardware.
By that, I'm referring to adding more ram to your server.
Too much ram is always better than too little or just enough for most hosts offer hardware upgrades.
So if you want to increase your RAM and CPU cores after you have created your server, it can be done
with zero downtime.
For the duration of this course, I'll be using a commercially purchased one gram walcher FPS.
Now we are going to create a survey, for instance, after creating your vulture account and logging
in on the left hand side, you can select products once the products page opens.
On the right hand side, the big blue plus sign, you can point to it.
And then I want you to select the option to deploy new server.
We are going to deploy a new server instance to server cloud compute, cloud compute and VPs are the
same.
It's just different terminology.
The next step is server location.
It's always best to select a server that is closest to your target market.
If your site is targeting the German market host in Germany, the location isn't important for a development
server.
But for your production server it's advantageous as the response times will be much lower for your site
visitors.
I'll select Amsterdam.
The next step is server type, this refers to the distribution or the server operating system, Ubuntu
twenty point zero for.
Services for development server, single CPU core gig of RAM one terabyte bandwidth is more than adequate.
Additional features you can ignore, as well as start up script and SSL keys to the server hostname
is important when you are configuring a male server.
But in our case, we can name the server simply to identify it with the server hostname restrict the
hostname to alpha numeric characters only.
I'm going to type my hostname as one to 20 zero for all that's left is to click deploy now, which will
create your server for instance.
Give the process a few minutes to complete.
Status has changed from installing to running once the status has changed to running.
You can click on your servers hostname.
Please take note of the Amber warning your server is currently being installed, most server actions
will be unavailable until this has completed.
Give it a few minutes to finish.
Vulture will notify you once the process has completed.
The warning has been removed.
Our server has been created successfully after clicking on your servers hostname.
The information that is important to us is the servers Internet protocol address or servers IP address
the server username which is route and then the password.
That is the password for the route user.
You can click on the option to show password, which will then display the password for the route user.
You also have an option to copy the IP address as well as copy the password.
In the next section of the course, we are going to log in to the server for the first time.
It makes no difference if you are using Windows, Mac OS or Linux.
When I ask you to log in to your server as the user, what you need to do is open your terminal emulator.
The command is S.H. You leave a space.
The first time we log into the server, we log in as the router user.
So you type route at now you need to specify the IP address of your server.
You could switch back to the vulture control panel, IP address, copy, IP address.
I'll switch back to terminal and paste my IP address immediately after the aside.
The warning that you receive after pressing enter refers to the server fingerprint.
When we start the actual lecture on logging into your server for the first time, I will look at the
server fingerprint in more detail for now.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting?
You need to type the word yes and then press enter route at your servers.
IP address password.
Switch back to the vulture control panel and copy password.
Switch back to terminal and paste.
You have now successfully logged into your server as the route user you can type exit.
The exit command is used to log out of your server at any stage.
If you would like to start the course over again on your service information page that we are looking
at, we have an option to destroy the server.
Yes, you need to confirm you want to destroy the server and then click destroy the server.
This can be done at any time.
If you want to start the course over again after destroying the server, point to the plus sign.
Deploy new server to server cloud compute.
Choose the location.
I'll select Amsterdam server, type the operating system open to the services.
If I have done a server, I can use the same hostname Ubuntu twenty point zero four and then click on
deploy now.
Wait a few minutes for the initial installation process to complete once the status changes from installing
to running, we can click on the server hostname.
The status has changed to running, I can click on the host name, the next page will display my new
IP address as well as the new password for the user.
I'll copy the IP address.
The procedure is exactly the same as each route that followed by your servers IP address.
In this section, we looked at where posts and server specifications, I logged in to Vulture and deployed
a new server instance, please check the PDF attached to this lecture.
There is a link that will give you 100 dollars free credit with Vulture.
That translates into 30 days free VPs hosting.
With that, all that's left is to log in as the route user and start the process of securing our server.